# Abstract

In order to counteract the shortage of general practitioners in Switzerland, most cantons have introduced the training model of practice assistance for the purpose of promoting the next generation. Here, medical assistents are given the opportunity to complete a training period with a GP in his office during their further training to become a specialist in general internal medicine. Usually, the residents stay employed by the training hospital for the duration of the internship and are only sent to the general practitioner for 6 months. At the same time, however, a legal relationship is also established between the GP and the medical assistent. 
The parallelism of these relations inevitably raises problems that require careful regulation. In particular, questions arise with regard to the applicable law of the individual legal relationships (public or private law?), the legal standing in the event of a breach of contract (what is the relationship between hospital, GP and medical assistant?), and finally with regard to special aspects of labour law (is it a temporary recruitment service, which requires authorisation? Who is the effective employer?). Surprisingly, the questions just raised are neither adequately regulated by law, nor by contract, nor by customary law. The present study was therefore intended to provide the first legal classification of the legal relationships of practice assistants. 
The investigation has shown that the practice assistant model is a legal innominate figure. First, an employment contract under public or private law is initially established between the medical assistant and the training hospital. The practice assistantship, on the other hand, represents an educational leave that is embedded in the employment relationship as an individual event. For the duration of the practice assistantship, a second employment relationship is temporarily established between the GP and the medical assistant. This is to be qualified as an internship, which is assessed according to the provisions of the employment contract and, in part, analogously according to the provisions of the apprenticeship contract. A sui generis contract exists between the training hospital and the trainee.
In the light of the findings, the study presented corresponding approaches to a solution, namely a mandate to the federal legislator as well as to the cantonal legislator, concrete recommendations on the form of the contract and, finally, the proposal for the assumption of joint and several liability between the hospital and the medical assostamt in order to adequately deal with the peculiarities of the triangular relationship.
